## Python - Quick Intro

* Python was developed bu Guido Van Rossum in 1991. 

Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language.

!!! success "INTERPRETED"
    This language uses an interpreter to change the code to machine language.  
!!! success "OBJECT-ORIENTED"
    This language is designed around objects. Objects are nothing but data fields that has a unique attributes and behavior.  
!!! success "High level language"
    Programmers can easily understand, or interpret or compile the high level programming langugae comparing to machine. 
    **Example**: C, C++, Java, Python 

!!! quote "Low level language"
    **Low level language** - Machine can understand the low level language compared to humans.  
    **Examples**: Machine language or Assembly language.
    machine language in the sense, everything will be in binary.

* Python is a case sensitive language.

## Python Setup

Install python using the below link

[Anaconda](www.anaconda.com/downloads)

present python version : 3.8.3

## Python Environments
There are 3 main types of python Environments
1. Text Editors
2. Full IDEs
3. Notebook Environments

Interactive mode - Interactive mode is a command line shell where user gets immediate result for the statements having the previous ran statements in active memory.

* `#` for comments
* `""" """` for doc string  - information about a function - for the purpose of documentation

## Basic Data types
* int
* float
* string

### To know the type of variable
```
x = 'bhavya'
type(x)
```

### + Symbol
* 2+3
* 'Hello' + 'World'

### Converting the data types

* int()
* float()
* string()


### Booleans
* True
* False

```
2 > 3

False
```

### Numbers

```
2 + 3
2 - 3
2 * 3
2 ** 3
2 ** 0.5

round((0.1+0.2),1)
```
Order of precendence - PAMDES If there are operators with same precendence - calculate from left to right

### String formatting 

**Formatting with .format() method**

```
print('This is our new {}', format('string'))

print('These are the strings inline, {},{},{}', format('first', 'second', 'third'))

print('These are the strings inline, {0},{1},{2}', format('first', 'second', 'third'))

print('These are the strings inline, {f},{s},{t}', format(f ='first', s='second', t='third'))
```

**Float formatting follows "{value:width.precision f}"**

```
result = 100/777

print("The result was {r}".format(r=result))

print("The result was {r:1.3f}".format(r=result))
```

**f-strings (formatted string literals) method**

```
name = "Bhavya"
age = 28

print(f'{name} is {age} years old.')
```