# Tic Tac Toe project

1. `Print the display board`  
   Write a function to printout a board.
   Setup the board as a list, where indexes from 1-9 corresponds to the number on the board.  
   Therefore, we get a 3 by 3 board representation.

2. `Assign the markers to the players`  
   Write a function that can take in a player input and assign their marker as 'X' or 'O'. 
   Think about using while loops to continually ask until you get a correct answer.

3. `Randomly choose the first player`  
   Write a function that uses the random module to randomly decide which player goes first. You may want to          lookup random.randint() Return a string of which player went first.

4. `Check whether the space is free or not`  
   Write a function that returns a boolean indicating whether a space on the board is freely available.

5. `Ask the player for the next position`  
   Write a function that asks for a player's next position (as a number 1-9) and then uses the function from step 4 to check if it's a free position. If it is, then return the position for later use.

6. `Assign the marker to the board as per the position provided by the player`  
   Write a function that takes in the board list object, a marker ('X' or 'O'),
   and a desired position (number 1-9) and assigns it to the board.

7. `Check Win conditions`  
   Write a function that takes in a board and a mark (X or O) and then checks to see if that mark has won.

8. `Check if the board is full`  
   Write a function that checks if the board is full and returns a boolean value. True if full, False otherwise.

9. `Ask the player, if he wants to replay`  
   Write a function that asks the player if they want to play again and returns a boolean True if they do want to play again.

