## Object Oriented

In python, Programmers can create their own objects that have methods and attributes.

In general, Object Oriented programming allows us to create a code that is repeatable and organized.

Class is like an object constructor or a "blueprint" for creating objects.  

!!! example "Create a Class"  

    ``` python
    class myclass:  
      x = 10 
    ```
We can use class myclass to create objects

!!! example "Create a Object"

    Creating the object o1 and print the value of x

    ```python
    o1 = myclass()
    print(o1.x)

    Result:
    10
    ```

### The `__init__()` function

In order to understand the meaning of classes and how objects can be created using classes, we need to understand the built-in `__init__()` function.

`__init__` is the constructor of the class. This will be called automatically, when we create object of the class.  

All classes will have `__init__()` function, which will be executed when the class is being initiated.
This `__init__()` function assign properties of a class to the object.

!!! example  

    ```python
    class Person:
      def __init__(self, name, age):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age

    p1 = Person("Bhavya", 29)

    print(p1.name)
    print(p1.age)

    Result:
    Bhavya
    29
    ```

`The __init__() function is called automatically every time the class is being used to create a new object.`

`The self parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class, and is used to access variables that belong to the class.`

### Class Object Attribute

Generally, Attribute is the characteristic of an object. We can specify some characteristics or properties that will be same for any objects of that particular class.

!!! example "Class Object Attribute"  

    ```python
    class Circle():
    
    # Class object attribute
    pi = 3.14
    
    def __init__(self, radius=1):
        self.radius = radius
        self.area = self.pi * radius ** 2

    ```

### Object Methods

Objects can also have methods. Methods in objects are functions that belong to that particular object.

!!! example "Create a method in the class person" 

    ```python
    class Person:
      def __init__(self, name, age):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age

      def myfunc(self):
        print("Hello my name is " + self.name)

    p1 = Person("Bhavya", 29)
    p1.myfunc()

    Result:
    Hello my name is Bhavya
    ```

### Modify Object Properties

We can always modify the object properties.

!!! example "Modifying the age of the person from 29 to 30"  

  ```python
  class Person:
    def __init__(self, name, age):
      self.name = name
      self.age = age

  p1 = Person("Bhavya", 29)
  p1.age = 30

  print(p1.age)

  Result:
  30
  ```

### Delete Object properties

We can delete properties of a particular object.

!!! example "Deleting the age of person p1"  

    ```python
    class Person:
      def __init__(self, name, age):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age

    p1 = Person("Bhavya", 29)
    del p1.age

    print(p1.age)
    ```

### Delete an Object

To delete an object we use del keyword

!!! example "Deleting the person p1"

    ```python
    del p1
    ```