## Datetime Module

A date in Python is not a data type of its own, but we can import a module named datetime to work with dates as date objects.

!!! example "To get today's Date"

    ```python
    import datetime

    x = datetime.date.today()
    print(x)

    Output:
    2020-07-02
    ```

!!! example "To get the present time"

    ```python
    import datetime

    x = datetime.datetime.now()
    print(x)

    Output:
    2020-07-02 15:39:00.085950
    ```

datetime.now() result contains year, month, day, hour, minute, second, and microsecond.

### Creating Date Object

To create a date, we can use the datetime() class (constructor) of the datetime module.

The datetime() class requires three parameters to create a date: year, month, day.

!!! example "Creating Date Object"

    ```python
    import datetime

    x = datetime.datetime(2020, 7, 7)

    print(x)

    Output:
    2020-07-07 00:00:00
    ```

The datetime() class also takes parameters for time and timezone (hour, minute, second, microsecond, tzone), but they are optional, and has a default value of 0, (None for timezone).

### Manipulating the date

We can change any instance of date like year, month or day.

!!! example 

    ```python
    d1 = datetime.date(2020,7,3)
    print(d1)

    Output:
    2020-07-03

    d2 = d1.replace(year = 1990)
    print(d2)

    Output:
    1990-07-03

    print(d1-d2)

    Output:
    10958 days, 0:00:00
    ```

### The strftime() Method

The strftime() Method is used to format the date objects into readable strings.
This function converts time input into a string output.  

This methods takes one parameter, format, to specify the format of the desired returned string.

!!! example "To display the name of the month"

    ```python
    import datetime

    x = datetime.datetime(2020, 7, 2)

    print(x.strftime("%B"))

    Output:
    July
    ```

#### A reference of all the legal format codes

Derivate| Description | Example 
-- | -- | --
%a	| Weekday, short version |	Wed	
%A	| Weekday, full version | Wednesday	
%w	| Weekday as a number 0-6, 0 is Sunday | 3	
%d	| Day of month 01-31 | 31	
%b	| Month name, short version	| Dec	
%B	| Month name, full version | December	
%m	| Month as a number 01-12 |	12	
%y	| Year, short version, without century | 18	
%Y	| Year, full version |	2018	
%H	| Hour 00-23 |	17	
%I	| Hour 00-12 |	05	
%p	| AM/PM	| PM	
%M	| Minute 00-59 | 41	
%S	| Second 00-59 | 08	
%f	| Microsecond 000000-999999 | 548513	
%Z	| Timezone | CST	
%j	| Day number of year 001-366 | 365	
%U	| Week number of year, Sunday as the first day of week, 00-53 | 52	
%W	| Week number of year, Monday as the first day of week, 00-53 | 52	
%c	| Local version of date and time | Mon Dec 31 17:41:00 2018	
%x	| Local version of date | 12/31/18	
%X	| Local version of time	| 17:41:00	




