## Strings

Collection of Characters

### Popular string methods

Methods | Description
-- | --
len(string) | to know the length of the string.  
string[index] | to get specific character from the string.  
string[start:end]  | to get the group of characters from start index position to end index position of string.  
string[start:end:step] | to get the group of characters from start index position to end index position of string based on the step size. By default step size will be 1
string[::-1]  | reverses the string.
string.upper()  | coverts the string characters to upper case.
string.lower() | converts the string characters to lower case.
string.split() | to split the string, by default split function splits the string based on white space.
string.split(character) | to split the string based on a specific character

## Lists

Collection of objects

```python
mylist = [1, 2.3, 'Hi']

nestedlist = [1, 2.3, 'Hi', [1, 2]]
```

### List Slicing

* can get the elements of a list using index.
* Index starts with 0.
* to select first element of a list  
`mylist[0]`
* to get the elements from the end of the list, like to get last element,  
`mylist[-1]` or `mylist[2]`
we will use negative number to start the cursor from end.

* To select multiple elements from list.  
`mylist[start, end]`   
The start index will be included, while the end index is not.  
`mylist[start:end:step]`  
step indicates the step size between the elements

!!! example

    ```python
    mylist = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
    print(mylist[3:5])

    result:
    [4,5]
    ```

### List Manipulation

* Add elements to the list.   
`list + new element`  
* Remove element from the list.  
`del(list[i])`

Examples for list manipulation:
!!! example

    ```python
    x = [a, b, c]  
    # address allocating  
    y = x  
    y[1] = z 

    print(x)

    result:
    [a,b,c]
    ```

    ```python
    x = [a, b, c]
    y = list(x)
    y = x[:]
    y[1] = z

    print(x)

    result:
    [z,b,c]
    ```

### Popular List Methods

Methods | Description
-- | --
len(list) | to know the length of the list  
list.append(el) | to append the element to the list 
list.pop(index) | to pop out the element from the list
list.sort() | to sort the elements of the list
list.reverse() | to reverse the elements of the list
list.max() | to get the maximum value of the list
list.min() | to get the minimum value of the list





 