## Regular Expressions

A RegEx, or Regular Expression, is a sequence of characters that forms a search pattern.  
RegEx can be used to check if a string contains the specified search pattern.   

Python has a built-in package called `re`, which can be used to work with Regular Expressions.  
`import re`

### RegEx Functions

The re module offers a set of functions that allows us to search a string for a match.

Function | Description
-- | --
findall | Returns a list containing all matches
search | Returns a Match object if there is a match anywhere in the string
split | Returns a list where the string has been split at each match
sub | Replaces one or many matches with a string

#### Metacharacters

Metacharacters are characters with a special meaning:

Character | Description | Usage
-- | -- | --
[] | A set of characters | "[a-m]"
\  | Signals a special sequence (can also be used to escape special characters) | "\d"
.  | Any character (except newline character) | "he..o"
^  | Starts with | "^hello"
$  | Ends with | "world$"
*  | Zero or more occurrences | "aix*"
+  | One or more occurrences | "aix+"
{} | Exactly the specified number of occurrences | "al{2}"
`|`  | Either or | "falls|stays"

#### Special Sequences

A special sequence is a \ followed by one of the characters in the list below, and has a special meaning:

Character | Description | Usage
-- | -- | --
\A | Returns a match if the specified characters are at the beginning of the string | "\AThe"
\b | Returns a match where the specified characters are at the beginning or at the end of a word (the "r" in the beginning is making sure that the string is being treated as a "raw string") | r"\bain" r"ain\b"
\B | Returns a match where the specified characters are present, but NOT at the beginning (or at the end) of a word (the "r" in the beginning is making sure that the string is being treated as a "raw string") | r"\Bain" r"ain\B"
\d | Returns a match where the string contains digits (numbers from 0-9) | "\d"
\D | Returns a match where the string DOES NOT contain digits | "\D"
\s | Returns a match where the string contains a white space character | "\s"
\S | Returns a match where the string DOES NOT contain a white space character | "\S"
\w | Returns a match where the string contains any word characters (characters from a to Z, digits from 0-9, and the underscore _ character) | "\w"
\W | Returns a match where the string DOES NOT contain any word characters | "\W"
\Z | Returns a match if the specified characters are at the end of the string | "Spain\Z"

#### Sets

A set is a set of characters inside a pair of square brackets [] with a special meaning:

Set | Description
-- | -- 
[arn] | Returns a match where one of the specified characters (a, r, or n) are present
[a-n] | Returns a match for any lower case character, alphabetically between a and n
[^arn] | Returns a match for any character EXCEPT a, r, and n
[0123] | Returns a match where any of the specified digits (0, 1, 2, or 3) are present
[0-9] | Returns a match for any digit between 0 and 9
[0-5][0-9] | Returns a match for any two-digit numbers from 00 and 59
[a-zA-Z] | Returns a match for any character alphabetically between a and z, lower case OR upper case
[+] | In sets, +, *, ., |, (), $,{} has no special meaning, so [+] means: return a match for any + character in the string

#### The findall() Function

The findall() function returns a list containing all matches.  

!!! Example

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.findall("ai", txt)
    print(x)
    >>> ['ai', 'ai']
    ```

The list contains the matches in the order they are found.
If no matches are found, an empty list is returned.

#### The search() Function

The search() function searches the string for a match, and returns a Match object if there is a match.  
If there is more than one match, only the first occurrence of the match will be returned.  

!!! Example "Search for the white space character"

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.search("\s", txt)

    print("The first white-space character is located in position:", x.start())
    >>> The first white-space character is located in position: 3
    ```

If no matches are found, the value None is returned.  

##### Match Object

A Match Object is an object containing information about the search and the result.

!!! Example "Search returns a match object"

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.search("ai", txt)
    print(x) 
    >>> <_sre.SRE_Match object; span=(5, 7), match='ai'>
    ```

The Match object has properties and methods used to retrieve information about the search, and the result.

`.span()` returns a tuple containing the start-, and end positions of the match.
`.string` returns the string passed into the function
`.group()` returns the part of the string where there was a match

!!! Example 

    Print the position (start- and end-position) of the first match occurrence.
    The regular expression looks for any words that starts with an upper case "S".

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.search(r"\bS\w+", txt)
    print(x.span())
    >>> (12, 17)
    ```

!!! Example 

    Print the string passed into the function.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.search(r"\bS\w+", txt)
    print(x.string)
    >>> The rain in Spain
    ```

!!! Example

    Print the part of the string where there was a match.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.search(r"\bS\w+", txt)
    print(x.group())
    >>> Spain
    ```

#### The split() Function

The split() function returns a list where the string has been split at each match.

!!! Example

    Split at each white-space character.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.split("\s", txt)
    print(x)
    >>> ['The', 'rain', 'in', 'Spain']
    ```

We can control the number of occurrences by specifying the maxsplit parameter.

!!! Example

    Split the string only at the first occurrence.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.split("\s", txt, 1)
    print(x)
    >>> ['The', 'rain in Spain']
    ```

#### The sub() Function

The sub() function replaces the matches with the text of your choice.

!!! Example

    Replace every white-space character with the number 9.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.sub("\s", "9", txt)
    print(x)
    >>> The9rain9in9Spain
    ```

We can control the number of replacements by specifying the count parameter.

!!! Example

    Replace the first 2 occurrences only.

    ```python
    import re

    txt = "The rain in Spain"
    x = re.sub("\s", "9", txt, 2)
    print(x)
    >>> The9rain9in Spain
    ```