Web scraping is a general term for techniques involving automating the gathering of data from a website.  

!!! Example "Web scraping examples"
    Downloading Images  
    Copying the Information  

## Rules of Web Scraping
* Always try to get permission before scrapping.
* If you make too many scraping attempts or requests your IP address may get blocked!
* Some sites automatically block scraping software.

## Limitations of web Scraping
* In general every website is unique, which means every web scraping script is unique.
* A slight change or update to a website may completely break your web scraping script.

## How website works??

When a browser loads a website, the gets to see the "front-end" of the website.  
Browser will be converting the html code to the readable information and displays it.  

Main front end components of a website are    
* HTML  
* CSS  
* JAVA SCRIPT   

HTML is used to create the basic structure and content of a webpage.  
CSS is used for the design and style of a webpage, where elements are placed and how it works.  
JavaScript is used to define the interactive elements of a webpage.  

Python can view these HTML and CSS elements programatically, and then extract information from the website.  

### HTML
* HTML is Hypertext Markup Language and is present on every website on the internet.   
* We can right-click on the website and select 'View page source' to get the HTML code of that page.  

!!! Example

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <title> Title on Browser Tab </title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <h1> Website Header </h1>
        <p> Some paragraph </p>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

### CSS
* CSS stands for Cascading style sheets.
* CSS gives 'style' to a website, such as changing colors and fonts
* CSS uses tags to define what html elements will be styled.

!!! Example 1

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <link rel= "stylesheet" href="styles.css">
        <title> Some title </title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <p id='para2'> Some Text </p>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    ```css
    #para2 {
      color: red;
    }
    ```

!!! Example 2

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <link rel= "stylesheet" href="styles.css">
        <title> Some title </title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <p class='cool'> Some Text </p>
      </body>
    </html>
    ```

    ```css
    .cool {
      color: red;
      font-family: verdana;
    }
    ```

!!! Example "CSS File"

    ```css
    p {
      color: red;
      font-family: courier;
      font-size: 160%
    }

    .someclass {
      color: green;
      font-family: verdana;
      font-size: 200%      
    }

    #someid {
      color: blue;
    }
    ```

!!! Note
    HTML contains the information.  
    CSS contains the styling.  
    We can use HTML and CSS tags to locate specific information on a page.  

* To Web Scrape with python we can use the BeautifulSoup and requests libraries.
* These are external libraries outside of python so we need to install them with either conda or pip at the command line.
`pip install requests`
`pip install lxml`
`pip install bs4`

