## Python Pandas - Introduction

Pandas is an open-source Python Library providing high-performance data manipulation and analysis tool using its powerful data structures. The name Pandas is derived from the word Panel Data – an Econometrics from Multidimensional data.  

Using Pandas, we can accomplish five typical steps in the processing and analysis of data, regardless of the origin of data — load, prepare, manipulate, model, and analyze.

Key Features of Pandas

* Fast and efficient DataFrame object with default and customized indexing.
* Tools for loading data into in-memory data objects from different file formats.
* Data alignment and integrated handling of missing data.
* Reshaping and pivoting of date sets.
* Label-based slicing, indexing and subsetting of large data sets.
* Columns from a data structure can be deleted or inserted.
* Group by data for aggregation and transformations.
* High performance merging and joining of data.
* Time Series functionality.

Standard Python distribution doesn't come bundled with Pandas module.  

Pandas can be installed using `pip install pandas`

## Data Structures

Pandas deals with the following three data structures:
* Series
* DataFrame
* Panel

These data structures are built on top of Numpy array, which means they are fast.

### Series

Series is a one-dimensional array like structure with homogeneous data. 
For example: series is a collection of integers 10, 23, 56, 78, 98, 12

* Homogeneous data
* Size Immutable
* Values of Data mutable

### DataFrame

DataFrame is a two-dimensional array with heterogeneous data.

Name | age | Gender | Rating
-- | -- | -- | --
Steve	| 32 | Male	| 3.45
Lia	| 28 | Female	| 4.6
Vin	| 45 | Male	| 3.9
Katie	| 38 | Female	| 2.78

The data types of the four columns are as follows:

Column | Type
-- | --
Name | String
Age	| Integer
Gender | String
Rating | Float

* Heterogeneous data
* Size Mutable
* Data Mutable

### Panel

Panel is a three-dimensional data structure with heterogeneous data. It is hard to represent the panel in graphical representation. But a panel can be illustrated as a container of DataFrame.

* Heterogeneous data
* Size Mutable
* Data Mutable


    